.TH KVAZAAR "1" "August 2016" "kvazaar v0.8.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kvazaar \- open source HEVC encoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBkvazaar \fR\-i <input> \-\-input\-res <width>x<height> \-o <output>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP
\fB\-\-help                    
Print this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version                 
Print version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-frames <integer>    
Number of frames to code [all]
.TP
\fB\-\-seek <integer>          
First frame to code [0]
.TP
\fB\-\-input\-res <int>x<int>   
Input resolution (width x height) or
auto          
try to detect from file name [auto]
.TP
\fB\-\-input\-fps <num>/<denom> 
Framerate of the input video [25.0]
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-qp <integer>        
Quantization Parameter [32]
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-period <integer>    
Period of intra pictures [0]
  0: only first picture is intra
  1: all pictures are intra
  2\-N: every Nth picture is intra
.TP
\fB\-\-vps\-period <integer>
Specify how often the video parameter set is
re\-sent. [0]
  0: only send VPS with the first frame
  1: send VPS with every intra frame
  N: send VPS with every Nth intra frame
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-ref <integer>       
Reference frames, range 1..15 [3]
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-deblock          
Disable deblocking filter
.TP
\fB\-\-deblock <beta:tc>   
Deblocking filter parameters
beta and tc range is \-6..6 [0:0]
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sao              
Disable sample adaptive offset
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-rdoq             
Disable RDO quantization
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-signhide         
Disable sign hiding in quantization
.TP
\fB\-\-smp                 
Enable Symmetric Motion Partition
.TP
\fB\-\-amp                 
Enable Asymmetric Motion Partition
.TP
\fB\-\-rd <integer>        
Rate\-Distortion Optimization level [1]
  0: no RDO
  1: estimated RDO
  2: full RDO
.TP
\fB\-\-mv\-rdo              
Enable Rate\-Distortion Optimized motion vector costs
.TP
\fB\-\-full\-intra\-search   
Try all intra modes.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-transform\-skip   
Disable transform skip
.TP
\fB\-\-aud                 
Use access unit delimiters
.TP
\fB\-\-cqmfile <string>    
Custom Quantization Matrices from a file
.TP
\fB\-\-debug <string>      
Output encoders reconstruction.
.TP
\fB\-\-cpuid <integer>     
Disable runtime cpu optimizations with value 0.
.TP
\fB\-\-me <string>         
Set integer motion estimation algorithm ["hexbs"]
  "hexbs": Hexagon Based Search (faster)
  "tz":    Test Zone Search (better quality)
  "full":  Full Search (super slow)
.TP
\fB\-\-subme <integer>     
Set fractional pixel motion estimation level [4].
  0: only integer motion estimation
  1: + 1/2\-pixel horizontal and vertical
  2: + 1/2\-pixel diagonal
  3: + 1/4\-pixel horizontal and vertical
  4: + 1/4\-pixel diagonal
.TP
\fB\-\-source\-scan\-type <string>
Set source scan type ["progressive"].
  "progressive": progressive scan
  "tff": top field first
  "bff": bottom field first
.TP
\fB\-\-pu\-depth\-inter <int>\-<int>
Range for sizes of inter prediction units to try.
  0: 64x64, 1: 32x32, 2: 16x16, 3: 8x8
.TP
\fB\-\-pu\-depth\-intra <int>\-<int>
Range for sizes of intra prediction units to try.
  0: 64x64, 1: 32x32, 2: 16x16, 3: 8x8, 4: 4x4
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-info             
Don't add information about the encoder to settings.
.TP
\fB\-\-gop <string>        
Definition of GOP structure [0]
  "0":           disabled
  "8":           B\-frame pyramid of length 8
  "lp\-<string>": lp\-gop definition (e.g. lp\-g8d4r3t2)
.TP
\fB\-\-bipred              
Enable bi\-prediction search
.TP
\fB\-\-bitrate <integer>   
Target bitrate. [0]
  0: disable rate\-control
  N: target N bits per second
.TP
\fB\-\-preset <string>     
Use preset. This will override previous options.
  ultrafast, superfast, veryfast, faster,
  fast, medium, slow, slower, veryslow, placebo
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-psnr             
Don't calculate PSNR for frames
.TP
\fB\-\-loop\-input          
Re\-read input file forever
.TP
\fB\-\-mv\-constraint       
Constrain movement vectors
  "none": no constraint
  "frametile": constrain within the tile
  "frametilemargin": constrain even more
.TP
\fB\-\-hash                
Specify which decoded picture hash to use [checksum]
  "none": 0 bytes
  "checksum": 18 bytes
  "md5": 56 bytes
.TP
\fB\-\-cu\-split\-termination
Specify the cu split termination behaviour
  "zero": Terminate when splitting gives little
            improvement.
  "off": Don't terminate splitting early
.TP
\fB\-\-me\-early\-termination
Specify the me early termination behaviour
  "off": Early termination is off
  "on": Early termination is on
  "sensitive": Sensitive early termination is on
.TP
\fB\-\-lossless            
Use lossless coding
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-tmvp            
Disable Temporal Motion Vector Prediction

.SS "Video Usability Information:"
.TP
\fB\-\-sar <width:height>  
Specify Sample Aspect Ratio
.TP
\fB\-\-overscan <string>   
Specify crop overscan setting ["undef"]
  \- undef, show, crop
.TP
\fB\-\-videoformat <string>
Specify video format ["undef"]
  \- component, pal, ntsc, secam, mac, undef
.TP
\fB\-\-range <string>      
Specify color range ["tv"]
  \- tv, pc
.TP
\fB\-\-colorprim <string>  
Specify color primaries ["undef"]
  \- undef, bt709, bt470m, bt470bg,
    smpte170m, smpte240m, film, bt2020
.TP
\fB\-\-transfer <string>   
Specify transfer characteristics ["undef"]
  \- undef, bt709, bt470m, bt470bg,
    smpte170m, smpte240m, linear, log100,
    log316, iec61966\-2\-4, bt1361e,
    iec61966\-2\-1, bt2020\-10, bt2020\-12
.TP
\fB\-\-colormatrix <string>
Specify color matrix setting ["undef"]
  \- undef, bt709, fcc, bt470bg, smpte170m,
    smpte240m, GBR, YCgCo, bt2020nc, bt2020c
.TP
\fB\-\-chromaloc <integer> 
Specify chroma sample location (0 to 5) [0]

.SS "Parallel processing:"
.TP
\fB\-\-threads <integer>   
Maximum number of threads to use.
Disable threads if set to 0.

.SS "Tiles:"
.TP
\fB\-\-tiles <int>x<int>   
Split picture into width x height uniform tiles.
.TP
\fB\-\-tiles\-width\-split <string>|u<int>
Specifies a comma separated list of pixel
positions of tiles columns separation coordinates.
Can also be u followed by and a single int n,
in which case it produces columns of uniform width.
.TP
\fB\-\-tiles\-height\-split <string>|u<int>
Specifies a comma separated list of pixel
positions of tiles rows separation coordinates.
Can also be u followed by and a single int n,
in which case it produces rows of uniform height.

.SS "Wpp:"
.TP
\fB\-\-wpp                 
Enable wavefront parallel processing
.TP
\fB\-\-owf <integer>|auto  
Number of parallel frames to process. 0 to disable.

.SS "Slices:"
.TP
\fB\-\-slice\-addresses <string>|u<int>
Specifies a comma separated list of LCU
positions in tile scan order of tile separations.
Can also be u followed by and a single int n,
in which case it produces uniform slice length.

